 

India after Independence;-
. Gayatri Sunkad,
Lecturer,
Department of Political Science,
Shri Kalidas  Degree College,
Badami.
Dist;-Bagalkot.
Karnataka,
India.
Cell-7019410220.
G-mail;-gayatri.sunkad@gmail.com
Member-Research Gate
ORCID iD-https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5309-9372

Abstract;
India had got independence on August 15, 1947. It is the achievement of India that without any bloodshed, it achieved freedom and it is the recorded as an important milestone in the world history. It can be termed as ‘’ Bloodless Revolution’’.
But after independence, India had to face many problems like illiteracy, corruption, status of women, poverty, gender discrimination, untouchability, regionalism, communalism etc. There are so many problems which were the greater obstacles for the economic growth of India. But still India is successfully faced all these problems and achieved success. But the way is not so much easy.  But we can say that in a greater extent, India had successfully faced all these 
problems and in  the  way  of science and technology, space technology,  it become the shining star before the world.
Key words;-Literacy, Communalism, Regionalism, Population growth, Corruption, Social problems, status of women etc.
Introduction;- India is the second largest populated as well as democratic country in the world. After the independence, it had faced so many challenges and most of the times it faced successfully.  The milestone we can witness in the economic progress of India is, the launching of five year plans, as well as preparation of constitution,   reorganizing of states etc.
But at the same time the problems like poverty, communalism, status of women etc are hindrances in the way of economic progress of the country. By providing legal provision, creating awareness among the people, spreading education among the people, It found the remedies for the problems.
Methodology.;-
Essay on India after Independence
Article shared by :  <="" div="" style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: 0px; outline: 0px; font-size: 16px; vertical-align: bottom; background: transparent; max-width: 100%;">
:
Essay on India after Independence!
India is the world’s largest democracy. It is the only country in Asia that has remained democratic ever since it attained its independence from British rule. The only exception to this is the brief period of the Emergency in 1975-76, when the democratic process was halted.
But it is through the democratic route of elections that the ruling caucus was dethroned and an alternative government installed. But that did not last long and the Congress party returned to power by winning back the confidence of the people.
Many in the world were apprehensive of the success of democracy in India. Their belief was further strengthened when several countries in the region, including Pakistan, failed as democracies and chose an authoritarian and militarist path in its stead. But this did not happen in India, and we have crossed more than half a century as a democracy. India has falsified all the prophecies of doom. It is the ballot, and not the bullet, that reigns supreme in India.
India after Independence:
After a long and difficult freedom struggle, India attained her independence from British rule in 1947. But this independence came with the partition of the country. A new state of Pakistan was created with portions of Western and Eastern India, taken away from the Indian map.
West Pakistan took away Western Punjab, Sindh, and Baluchistan; East Pakistan was created with the partition of Bengal into East and West, the latter remaining with India. Thus, there was a long corridor of India that separated East Pakistan from West Pakistan. That such a formation of the new state was non-pragmatic and unworkable was proven by later events.
In 1971, East Pakistan broke its ties with the Western wing and became the separate country of Bangladesh. The subcontinent, which was once a single country, was divided into three nations. Meanwhile, the state of Sikkim, which was a separate kingdom ruled by the Chogyal monarchy, joined the Indian Union in 1975.
Independence arrived in India not only with ‘multiplicity of heritages and legacies’, but also with the pangs of partition that caused dislocation of populations on both sides. Several Muslim families from regions other than those that went to Pakistan decided to opt for the nationality of the new religious state and to migrate there, and numerous Hindu families from both East and West Pakistan got uprooted and came to India as homeless refugees.
This movement of people was not peaceful. There was a lot of bloodshed, looting, rape of women, and merciless killing of innocent people. After the creation of Bangladesh, several Muslim families, which migrated from Bihar and other adjoining states to the Eastern wing of Pakistan, suffered from similar discrimination and marginalization. India has become a shelter for several Bangladeshis who have crossed the porous border illegally and settled in several cities of India.

Their arrival in Assam, for example, caused serious problems and prompted the natives to raise the demand for repatriation of the non-Assamese. Speakers of Bengali and followers of Islam cannot be easily classified foreigners in the pluricultural society of India. Vote-bank politics has also helped in blurring their identities.
India inherited the legacy of British rule – a system of administration, an army, and a democratic form of government, based on the Government of India Act of 1935. Most important was the fact that our country retained the name India that is Bharat. We remain the mainland, while the other states are historically the breakaway groups.
The transition from a colonial country to an independent nation was not easy. Partition entailed division of resources, transfer of government personnel from one country to another, and reorientation of the bureaucracy.
As Paul R. Brass says:
“In some ways, it is possible to view Independence and the adoption in the early years after Independence of a new Constitution as another stage in the evolution of India toward representative government in a process that dates back to the Indian Councils Act of 1861 and continues through the Morley-Minto Reforms of 1909, the Montagu- Chelmsford Reforms of 1919, and the Government of India Act of 1935”.But the new Constitution, which was adopted by the Constituent Assembly on 26 November 1949, and came into force on 26 January 1950, has some new features, providing a sharp break with the British colonial past.
It adopted the Westminster model of parliamentary government as against the mixed parliamentary-bureaucratic authoritarian system inherited from British India. The new Constitution included a chapter on Fundamental Rights, and also on Directive Principles, which were not there in the 1935 Act. The introduction of adult suffrage was also a new feature. The Indian polity became a mix of the unitary and federal forms of government.
Let us discuss the problems  faced by  India and  also  know how it is successfully found the remedies for the solutions.

Illiteracy;-Illiteracy is the very serious problem faced by  India.   According to  2011 census, literacy rate is 7  
⦁	
⦁	74% in India. But after the independence, India had faced a serious problem in terms of illiteracy. There were no so much educational facilities at the time of independence. But the central government had taken many steps to solve the problem of illiteracy. The central government as well as state government, established government schools to universalize the free and compulsory primary education.    
⦁	
⦁	
⦁	There were only 12% literates in India at the time of independence. It has been enhanced to 66% in 2001, By 2011, it has increased to 74%. Still about 26% are  illiterates. So the Government has taken up many steps to eradicate this problem. ‘’Sarvaa Sikssha Abhiyaan’’ has been launched in 2001 to provide free education for children of 6-14 years. It provides education to girls and physically challenged.  In 1988 ‘’ National Literacy Mission’’ has also been established by the Government of India to make illiterates to literates. ‘’ Sakshara Bharath’’ programme has been launched to eradicate illiteracy.
⦁	
⦁	Recently through Article 21 of   Our Constitution Right to Education 2009 has been guaranteed. Compulsory free education has been implemented for the children between 6 and 14 years. 
⦁	
⦁	Communalism;-Terrorism causes negative impact on  civilized society and governments. Terrorism  is a  political tactic which  creates fear complexities and glorifies the ideology of the Terroist Organizations. Such acts of organized violence are fully unlawful and antisocial in nature. Such acts  are based on religious, political or ideological goal causing heavy  psychological impact.
⦁	
⦁	In short communalism in India is a menace, which is capable to disrupt the very unity and integrity of our system. It propagates hate-philosophy among religious groups. It spreads with unwarranted mutual accusation, insult and even physical combat among  the religion  groups.
⦁	national  feeling above the sectarian thoughts are very essential to combat communalism
⦁	Uniform legal system , equal treatment of  all citizens, practice of secularism in all aspects of public life, furtherance of national  feeling above the sectarian thoughts are very essential to combat communalism.
⦁	
⦁	
⦁	Regionalism;- Regionalism means highest attachment towards one’s state. It is also strong feeling of people in favor of their local area. Linguistic fanaticism too leads to regionalism. Extreme regionalism  harms  national unity and interest.  Glorification  of  parochialism  or regionalism  hampers  the unity of the nation. The regional  struggles  going  on various parts of the country too hamper the development of the nation.
⦁	If extreme regionalism among the states is allowed to continue, it will  cause serious inter-state  border disputes, river water disputes , etc. This type of parochialism  based on regionalism, acts against national interests.
⦁	To counter regionalism, our  Indian Constitution provides many  remedial  measures.  Some of them are as ,follows;-
⦁	It emphasizes national unity and integrity by upholding single national citizenship.
⦁	It provides enough space for regional development  with the federal structure and
⦁	The preamble of our constitution declares ‘’  We the people of  India’’ and there by stresses Indian nationalism.
⦁	
⦁	Status  of women;- There are many inherent socio-economic causes  which  lowered  their status.,  Lack of education, has been a great  hindrance to women’s progress.  Male domination, social customs, religious norms are also the causes which harm the status of women etc.
⦁	The achievements of women during pre-independent  India are notable.  Jhansi Rani Lakshmibai,  Kitturu  Rani  Chennamma, Anniebesant, Kasurba Gandhi,  Savithribai Phule, Sarojini Naiddu, are some of the memorable women freedom fighters. Now women are present in all walks of life  like medical, teaching, engineering, pilot, astronaut, police,politics, military and other areas. Still, the status of women  needs a lot of improvement.  The status of women has remained low due to social customs, poverty aand illiteracy. This has  affected the  progress of the country.
 
⦁	
⦁	To improve the women’s education and development, government has started Women and Children Development Department.  Through, this health; education and social status of women are improved. Women education, Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, Dowry Prohibition Act etc are there for the empowerment of women.
⦁	Various cooperative formations  like Stree Shakti  self help groups , associations of self help groups have been formed. Women’s  commissions have been established at national  and state  level  to address  the various issues o women. Attempts are made to provide reservations  at state  and national legislatures bodies. Women reservation  is also provided in government recircuitments.
⦁	
⦁	Unemployment;- Unemployment is a situation   where a person does not find work in accordance to his capacity or qualification . India has a huge population and unemployment is a big problem.  Usually, the huge population and improved technology are considered as the two reasons for unemployment. Apart from these two, shortage of natural resources, over dependency of agriculture, ruined cottage industries, and lack of skill based education unemployment has become a huge problem.  According to census of 2011, the poverty rate is 21.9%. This indicates the growing problem of unemployment in India.
⦁	Remedies;- In order to  solve the poverty related issues, both the central and state governments have taken various measures to generate employment for people. Steps  have been taken  to improve the skill level of the job seekers so that they can have better access to employment, providing loans and subsidy to enable people to engage in self employment.
⦁	Hence, the solution is to inculcate world class skill to our people so that they compete with global production. Apart from this, every citizen other country should be encouraged to indulge in one or the other employment by providing job oriented course to all is another strategy to think on.
⦁	
⦁	Corruption;- Corruption is another social evil in the public life of India. Now, the corruption has spread to all strata of the society. Corruption means offering bribe and following any other illegal means to achieve some illegal benefits. This also can be defined as misuse of public authority for personal gains. Sweeping away all the procedures for a narrow personal gain can also be termed as corruption. 
⦁	Political corruption leads to crime. It also provides motivation of corruption in  public lie and nourishes   the misadministration  on the part of officials. Things like tax evasion , illegal hoarding , smuggling , economic offences, cheating , violation of international exchange and  employment cheating all find space in corruption.
⦁	It is impossible to root out corruption by either rejecting it at personal level or just going along with it. It can be rooted out only through strong public ethics and morality and personal commitment.  Many times , a natural human tendency for selfishness, eagerness to  find personal emergencies leads to corruption.
⦁	
⦁	Remedies;- The institutions like Lokpal and Lok Ayukta, usage of CCTV cameras  are  in government  offices are used to prevent the corruption. .Even the harsh punishment to corrupt officials are also  the preventive measures  to stop the corruption.   In nutshell, many measures are used to prevent  the levels of corruption.
 Population explosion;- The number of people which a country can support largely, if not entirely, depends upon its existing natural resources, the methods it uses in production, and the efficiency of labor which affects labor productivity. It appears from current standards that India’s population is considerably increasing..
This excess population is itself a symptom of over-population. This problem is becoming more and more acute day by day due to rapidly increasing population in terms of the density  of population.. So, India is over-populated.
However, a small minority of people see that India is not really over-populated  still,  it is a vast country with plenty of natural resources. These resources have not been fully used as yet. They express the view that, if all the resources are fully employed, India can maintain a larger population than what it is having now and in much greater comfort.
 
causes;-There are many causes for the population explosion in India;-
Male dominant society;- The Indian society is male dominant society. In   Sanskrit language there is slogan is there;-‘’ Aputrasya Gathinasthi’’ it means, the person who is not having a son is not qualified to get moksha.  So every Indian woman wants to beget a son and up to    getting a son, she begets more and more children. This is also, the main reason for population increasing in India.
Climatic condition in India;-In India, there is hot temperate climate. Due to this, the girls are matured early in age and due to this the parents are started to make their daughters early marriage. So they matured early in age, marry in early age, and become mother in early age.  This is also leads to population explosion.
Poverty;-Poverty is also leads to some times the population explosion. Due to poverty, they are not caring about the birth control measures, and they think that if they are having more children, then they will help and earn money for them, and take care in the old age.
Agriculture as the main occupation for livelihood;- In India the people are occupying as the agriculture as the main occupation. But the agriculture needs more hands. So the agriculture occupying`` as the main occupation, indirectly supports the increasing the population.
Decline in the death mortality rate ;After the independence, the both  Central government and  state government had provided the free medical  facilities to the needy  people. For every five kilometers, the government had established the Primary Health Centre (P.H.C.) and by this the poor people are providing the necessary medical facilities.  By this, the birth rates are increasing and death rates are decreasing.
The remedial measures to control the increasing population;-  There are so many measures to control the increasing population. They are as follows;-
Adopting family planning policy;-One of the best measures of controlling the increased population is adoption of family planning policy. If all are adopting the family planning policy, means to restricting ourselves, to beget only two children, then we can control the increasing population to some extent.
Encouraging the women to  use birth control  measures;-  The women are having the important  role in controlling the  population  explosion. If women  are educated about the bad effects of the increasing population, then they will certainly  use the birth  control  pills to  prevent  frequent pregnancy  as well as create gap between the two pregnancy, which is supports  their career,  health  as well as they  can look after the children very well. This time of creating the gap between the two pregnancy definitely supports the controlling the rate of increasing population.
Poverty;- Poverty is the serious problem faced by India after independence.  It was existed even before independence. This problem is considered as both social as well as economic problem. It is existed not only due to economic condition of the nation, and also due to the  mindset of  the people. It  is  caused due to  illiteracy, population explosion , etc.
But by controlling the population explosion,  by decentralizing industries, by spreading education, we can prevent the poverty line in India.
The various measures taken by the  government  to mitigate poverty.;- 
⦁	 The rural youth are provided with training to take up self- employment . BPL cards are issued to the poor families.
⦁	National Rural Employment Programe  (NREP) has been undertaken.
⦁	Provision of Employment Programe   to the rural landless laborers.
⦁	Jawahar Rojgar Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yojana and other different schemes are taken to reduce poverty.

Conclusion;- After independence, India had successfully  faced the problems like poverty, population explosion, unemployment etc.  Even though we had succeeded still we have to reach our goal.
So, let us  hope  in this direction.
References;-


⦁	
Major Challenges Before India at the Time of Independence
Explain the challenges that India faced at the time of ...
www.zigya.com › study › book
India After Independence: Phases from 1947-1984, Problems ...
www.toppr.com › india-after-independence
Different Challenges Faced By India After Independence
www.shareyouressays.com › essays › different
.
23 CHALLENGES T O INDIAN DEMOCRACY - NIOS
www.nios.ac.in › media › documents
...
What were the challenges faced by the Indians soon after ...
www.quora.com › What-were-the-challenges-faced-by

History of India (1947–present) - Wikipedia
en.wikipedia.org › wiki › History_of_the_Republic_of
INDIAN ECONOMY- BEFORE AND AFTER INDEPENDENCE | ONLYIAS ...
onlyias.com › indian-economy-before-and-after
Changing Status of Women after the Independence of India
www.yourarticlelibrary.com › society › changing
.
Development in India After Independence - India